URL: https://pathwayswithinwellness.com/cryotherapy-1
Title: Cryotherapy — Pathways Within Wellness Services on Long Island
==================================================
Cryotherapy on
Long Island
From burning off latent emotions to residual pain, cryotherapy is a precision tool with a wide breadth of therapeutic benefits.

The use of cold as a therapeutic tool is a timeless way to experience localized or whole-body healing. Using subzero immersion to freeze out the unwelcome trauma of your past for a brighter future is possible with Cryotherapy.

Cold Therapy 101

A brief exposure to extreme cold sounds like a dare you take or an accidental experience you don’t want to repeat, but sometimes the most surprising things can create holistic healing at a cellular level.

In an enclosed space, you’ll be plunged into temperatures of up to -300°F for a brief period of time to provoke a myriad of benefits to body, mind, and spirit. The cold is created by liquid nitrogen, designed to ultra chill your skin and all the blood running close to it to create a holistic response of regeneration.

With benefits at every level of your being, this ancient therapy has incredible applications for pain of many kinds. From physical to physiological, the cold truly can sink straight into all elements of your being. The benefits of cryotherapy are so much more than skin-deep.

Every facet of your human experience may find some space to heal with cryotherapy, especially if you experience:

Benefits of Cryotherapy
Pain from Injuries
Anxiety
Arthritis
Inflammation
Nerve Pain
Atopic Dermatitis
Migraines
Eczema
Depression
Mood disorders
Talking Bodies

The environments we exist in communicate constantly with our bodies. Both physical and emotional body conversations occur with what’s going on around you to manage the way your muscles and bones move as well as the way your emotions engage with whatever you are experiencing. Using Cryotherapy, we can slow the cellular response while heightening the oxygenation of your blood and tissues. When the temperature drops in such an extreme way, your whole body will respond.

This new and unexpected shift of environment can help to stop chronic conditions in their tracks. Because it is highly effective and minimally invasive, cryotherapy can be used to treat comprehensive and chronic conditions or applied in more localized manners for acute difficulties. From ice packs to immersive chambers, cryotherapy can help.

Spotlight:
Inflammation
Management

Inflammation is not just something that happens to our joints or in response to physical injury. Our whole bodies are subject to react with an inflammatory response to the things we experience.

When our fight-or-flight reflex is engaged, it’s similar to an inflammatory response. Your body is flooded with hormones preparing you for action both mentally and physically. It can be helpful if you are in crisis or require immediate action.

But what happens when you’re experiencing those floods of hormones chronically, and the inflammatory response becomes a constant contention?

Pain - Both emotional and physical pain are the result of those responses.

Cryotherapy is an age-old tool that can help you to manage not just the way your body responds to new pain, but how you flush out the hurt that lingers there as well.

True beauty starts from within.
Complement your wellness journey with expert therapy services that nurture your mind and soul.
Discover the power of emotional healing today.
Frequently Asked Questions

You’ve got questions, and we’ve got answers. Some of our most-asked questions are here but if there’s something else on your mind, we love to chat. Feel free to reach out and let us help you apply a laser focus to your wellness dreams.

Is is dangerous?
What should i wear?
How long do I go to Cryotherapy?
How can the cold help my mood?

----- ACCORDION / FAQ ANSWERS (collapsed on page) -----
Q: Is is dangerous?
A: While there are always risks to exposure therapies of any kind, the danger of extreme cold is well controlled in our therapy chambers. We keep you as safe as possible through careful consideration while making healing the central focus.

If you have diabetes, you should avoid cryotherapy. For other health conditions, ask your physician before we begin.

Q: What should i wear?
A: We will ensure you feel well-prepared before undertaking your first session.

Loose-fitting and dry clothing are key to protecting skin from the risk of extreme cold. Socks and gloves will also help to prevent your extremities from experiencing potentially uncomfortable side effects like numbness, redness, or tingling that can occur temporarily after cryotherapy.

Q: How long do I go to Cryotherapy?
A: Individual sessions are brief. For whole-body cryotherapy, you’ll be in the chamber for less than 4 minutes and your whole appointment will be less than a half-hour. Localized therapy varies over time. You may see benefits from one treatment and follow up with visits as often as twice weekly as long as you are seeing results. Some athletes even do daily cryotherapy at home!

Q: How can the cold help my mood?
A: While the body’s response to physical pain is not directly correlated to emotional pain, creating a shocking change to the physical systems can jar our emotional ones.

By inducing vasoconstriction and sending the blood flow racing back toward your core, we can create higher levels of oxygenation and a wave of endorphins and enzymes that support your emotional wellbeing and, as a result, your mood.